[SOUND]
Hi, welcome to week three.
This time we will see an algorithm
called variational inference.
This is an algorithm for computing
the posterior probability approximately.
But first of all,
let's see why do we even care about
computing approximate posterior.
So here we see base formula that
helps us to compute the posterior
on the latent variables given the data.
We will denote the posterior probability,
f, as p*(z).
So when the prior is
conjugate to the likelihood,
it is really easy to
compute the posterior.
However, for most of the other cases,
it is really hard.
One important case is called
the variational autoencoders and
we will see it in week five.
In variational autoencoders, we model
the likelihood as neural networks.
So it would be a normal
distribution of the data given that
the mean is some neural
network mu of z and
the variance is some other neural
networks, sigma squared of z.
And in this case, there's no conjugacy and
we can't compute the posterior
using Bayes' formula.
But do we actually need
the exact posterior?
For example, here is some distribution and
it doesn't seem to belong to some
known family of distributions.
However, we could approximate
it using the Gaussian and for
most of the practical considerations,
it will really be a good approximation.
For example, it would match the mean,
the variance and [INAUDIBLE] the shape.
And so through out this week,
we'll see a method that will help us to
find the best approximation
of the full posterior.
It works as follows, first of all,
we select some family distribution as Q.
We'll call this a variational family.
For example, this could be family
of normal distributions with some
arbitrary mean, and the coherence
matrix that will be a diagonal one.
What we do next is we try to
approximate the full posterior,
the star of z, with some
variational distribution, q of z,
and we find the best matching
distribution using the KL divergence.
So we try to minimize the KL
divergence between the q and
the p* in the family of distributions, q.
So depending on which Q is left,
we can obtain different results.
If Q's too small, then the true
posterior will not lie in it and
we'll have some distribution that
does not match the full posterior.
And the distance between
the full posterior and
the distribution we approximated
would be exactly a KL divergence.
We selected a larger Q than the posterior
could match the approximate distribution.
However, for larger Qs, it is harder
to compute the variational inference.
For example, if we select a Q as
a family of all possible distributions,
the only possible way to compute
the posterior would be for
example the base formula, and
we've already seen that it is hard.
There's one problem in this approach.
As we'll see later, we'll have to
compute the z star at some point.
However, we can't compute even at one
point because we'll have to compute
the evidence, the p of x.
It is sometimes really hard.
However, there is a nice property of
KL divergence that we'll see now.
So here's our optimization objective.
Here's a KL divergence between
our variational distribution and
a normalized posterior.
So we'll denote it as p hat over
some z that equals to the evidence.
So KL divergence is by definition is
an integral of K of Z times the logarithm
of the ratio between the first
distribution and the second.
Note here that we can take
the z out of an integral.
We will get the following formula.
We get two integrals, first is KL
divergence between the variational
distribution and a normalized
distribution, and some integral.
Actually we can see that we can take
a logarithm from z out of an integral and
the thing that will have left is
the integral of q of z, [INAUDIBLE].
So finally we'll have a KL
divergence plus some constant.
And since we optimized the subjective,
we can remove
the constant since it does not depend
on the variational distribution.
And so here is out [INAUDIBLE] objective.
And in the next video, we'll see a method
called mean-field approximation.
[SOUND]